Project process proposal (#4120)
opencollective/opencollective: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project.md

<!-- Please fill out the following questions to rationalize the prioritization of this project -->

- Does this serve our mission

> - Will this help to make us financially sustainable within a year?

Author: as I understnad it this was a stated goal (that maybe we have reached?) but I would love to link to a set of longer-lived goals that we're working toward that helps us acheive our mission.

Reviewer: I like that - maybe we can also link to the values section in docs, or bring some of that working into the template.

- Can this make us move faster?

- Does this increase quality? 

> - Does this add technical debt?

Reviewer 2: Nice question.
I tend to believe that projects are always ideal and technical debt is a result of shortcuts within the project.

Author: That's a fair point. Often we take shortcuts during a project and accrue debt in trade for speed. I guess what I meant here is whether this is going to create organisational overhead that needs to be _staffed_. I'll amend.

Author: ```suggestion
- Does this add additional overhead that needs to staffed (i.e. checking reports, approving checks etc.)
```

Author: @kewitz do you think this is better?

- Is it feasible to build and maintain with our current team and runway?

> - Is this problem already solved elsewhere or is it based on insight or research?

Author: I think it's important that we are able to prioritse projects by things we think are a good idea, things we suspect to be a good idea or things we know to be a good idea :D

Reviewer 3: Sounds to me like `Is this problem already solved elsewhere` should be a separate question than knowing what are the research or insight that motivate this project.

Author: ```suggestion
- What insight or research is this project based on?
- Is thisproblem already solved elsewhere?
```

- How will we measure our success? Do we have a baseline today that we can compare this against?

> - How well do we understand the complexity of the problem, feature to be added or user need to be addressed? 

Author: I like the estimation here, but I wonder whether this might hold us back from documenting project proposals as there's a lot of weight to doing this (and weight we shouldn't take on alone) so I've introduced some lighter weight guidance here and offloaded the heavier estimation stuff to part of kickoff/scoping

- What is the estimated timeframe for delivering this project? 

## Kick-off meeting

### Roadmap & Timeframe
(Key milestones or phases and estimated dates. Consider including further scoping, discovery, and prototyping. Include as a minimum: planning, design, development, documentationm, feedback, iteration and, marketing )

### Success metrics
(What we will judge outcomes of the project by)

> ### Release planning

Author: One of the things that I think we can improve is our post-release comm's and release planning, so I've dropped this in to aid me and anyone working on those things from the outset.

** Estimated delivery date**

> - Which aspect(s) of the platform does this change impact?

Author: Some of my goals here are also to ensure that we're able to plan documentation edits and improvements

- Which group(s) of users will benefit from this change?
- Is this project in response to a user-requested feautre? If so who requested it (link to feature request if available)?
- Is this project related to any similar work we have done, or are planning on doing in the next three months?

### Next steps

- [ ] Open up any appropriate project issues

> - [ ] Open a documentation issue, link it to this one

Author: I'd like to create a template for this, incorporating some of the release planning questions that are focussed on what is changing, who will be impacted etc.

Reviewer 3: I like this. We usually close projects before they are completely documented, and we so lose track of what needed to be done. Having the documentation needs for a project specified in a separate issue would resolve this.

> - [ ] Open a release issue, link it to this one

Author: Similarly I'd like to add a release issue template for tracking feature releases (when they're of an appropriate size) this is where I'd plan on putting marketing/comm's plans and ideas.

<!-- Please fill out the following questions to rationalize the prioritization of this project -->

- Does this serve our mission

- Will this help to make us financially sustainable within a year?

- Can this make us move faster?

- Does this increase quality? 

- Does this add technical debt?

- Is it feasible to build and maintain with our current team and runway?

- What insight or research is this project based on?

> - Is thisproblem already solved elsewhere?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Is this problem already solved elsewhere?
```

- How will we measure our success? Do we have a baseline today that we can compare this against?

- How well do we understand the complexity of the problem, feature to be added or user need to be addressed? 

- What is the estimated timeframe for delivering this project? 

## Kick-off meeting

### Roadmap & Timeframe
(Key milestones or phases and estimated dates. Consider including further scoping, discovery, and prototyping. Include as a minimum: planning, design, development, documentationm, feedback, iteration and, marketing )

### Success metrics
(What we will judge outcomes of the project by)

### Release planning

> ** Estimated delivery date**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Estimated delivery date**
```

- Which aspect(s) of the platform does this change impact?
- Which group(s) of users will benefit from this change?

> - Is this project in response to a user-requested feautre? If so who requested it (link to feature request if available)?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Is this project in response to a user-requested feature? If so who requested it (link to feature request if available)?
```

- Is this project related to any similar work we have done, or are planning on doing in the next three months?

### Next steps

- [ ] Open up any appropriate project issues
- [ ] Open a documentation issue, link it to this one
- [ ] Open a release issue, link it to this one
- [ ] Create a project board, add this issue to the description, add any issues created above 

## Project Closure

- Close all relevant project issues
- Open up issues for improvements 
- Post comm's according to comm's plan (most likely in release issue)
- Post project screencast on documentation slack channel 

> - Post comm's according to comm's plan

Reviewer 4: Remove this line I guess since it's already written as the third bullet point. 🤔 

```suggestion

```
